>> Will Sentance: We are going to
create I use a great function, but
we call this object single copies or
single, I don't even want us a copy of
that song is no single same
version of each of our functions.
And we're going to run I use a creative
function, it's going to create objects
inside using object create, which is just
another way of creating the object.dddd
But that objects going to have somehow our
bond to that user function store object.
Meaning that, when that object gets
returned out into user one with
its properties, but
no function stored on it.
When we end up using that object, using
one dot increment, and it doesn't find
increment on the object, are we gonna
panic It's gonna have a link somehow to
use a function store where it's gonna
find the increment method and use it.
All right people, here we go.
Line one.
Jeff, what are we doing in global memory?
What are we doing?
>> Jeff: We are declaring
a function user created.
>> Will Sentance: Excellent,
in global memory, user,
creator,
>> Will Sentance: There it is.
The old function, excellent.
Now, to Matt.
>> Matt: We're gonna define
a constant user function store-
>> Will Sentance: Yeah.
>> Jeff: With a value
>> Will Sentance: Of an object.
>> Matt: Of an object.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
don't get caught people,
here in thinking it's anything else.
It's an object, yeah.
There it is.
Yeah, and what's stored on the object?
>> Matt: We have an increment property and
a login property.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, and that's
an increment method because the function's
stored on it.
And a login Property
which is also a method.
Well, my arm is actually starting to ache.
There we go.
No problem.
There it is.
Thank you too much.
Now we move on to the next
slide left hand side.
Braden, what to say to do?
>> Braden: Declare the constant user-1.
>> Jeff: User-1.
>> Will Sentance: Do we know
what it showing here, people.
Nope, we got to go and
run userCreator, brand new everybody.
>> Students: Execution context.
>> Will Sentance: Execution context,
beautiful.
That was so vibrant in which to pass our
arguments will and
three brand new execution
context as you all said
>> Will Sentance: So
wonderfully, here it is.
No, there it is.
Okay, into it we
go,
>> Jeff: I
didn't do is local memory we had,
>> Jeff: Okay,
first thing we handle, over to Dan,
what are we gonna handle first?
>> Will Sentance: We assign
Will to the argument name.
>> Jeff: Almost, the Will argument to the-
>> Will Sentance: Sorry,
to the parameter name.
>> Jeff: Parameter name, yeah, exactly.
And then the next parameter is score,
we assign in what argument?
>> Will Sentance: 3.
>> Jeff: 3, beautiful.
Very nice, thank you Dan.
Now we enter the body of the function
where the whole point of this function
by the way, create an object with the data
of a particular user stored in it and
the functionality that will ever,
ever be applied to that particular user.
That's the only point.
So what do we do in the next line?
Kyla, we create a?
>> Will Sentance: A constant new user.
>> Jeff: Yeah, and assign to it
>> Will Sentance: Empty object.
>> Jeff: An empty object.
Go ahead, sorry.
>> Will Sentance: With the properties
of user function store.
>> Jeff: No properties,
it's really an empty object.
But I will say I do agree, it somehow got
an intimate link between
this object that's
being created And
I use the function store.
We do not yet know how but
there is a intimate link.
Okay, but
let's get fitting in those properties.
Dan, actually, Adam, sorry about there.
I should not always specify
it at the back, Adam.
Go ahead.
We've got a new user object.
What are we adding immediately to it?
>> Will Sentance: A property called name.
>> Jeff: Yeah, and?
>> Will Sentance: And reassigning its
value of the argument name, which is Will.
>> Jeff: Fantastic yeah, and then?
>> Will Sentance: The score is 3?
>> Jeff: Yeah, perfect okay, that object.
What do we do with it?
It's kind of seems that what we need.
It's got the data and
it linked somehow to our functions, but
it's stuck inside our execution context.
Matt, how we get it out.
We're going to return the object exactly
out into what global label Matt,
use one fantastic.
And there it is with name: Will,
score: [SOUND] 3.
And any increment method on it?
Exactly, but it does have somehow a link
To this collection of functions up here.
We'll see how in a moment, don't worry.
Okay, we're back out in global
we declare now user two.
It's going to be the result of
another call to user, another running,
another execution context for
the running of user creator.
This time with the argument of Tim,
and five.
What would it's output be?
I'm just gonna sort of skip
the execution context,
know that we've gone inside and done all.
So what are we gonna end up with here,
Matt,
all the output that gets
stored into user 2B?
>> Will Sentance: The object with
the property name to the value of Tim.
That does it property, score of
the value 5, and an indelible link.
>> Jeff: Yeah,
a mysterious indelible link, through to?
>> Will Sentance: The user function store.
>> Jeff: Through to
the user function store.
>> Will Sentance: Look at that,
they merged well, there.
And you are through to
the user function store.
Okay, now we do our check.
We're gonna do, let's do user1.increment,
it's what I've got up here,
user1.increment.
Todd, you already know, it's over to you.
Todd, where's JavaScript
gonna go looking for user1?
>> Jeff: In the global memory.
>> Will Sentance: Global memory,
we find it?
>> Jeff: Yes.
>> Will Sentance: Yes we do, hold on.
>> Will Sentance: Yes we do.
What are we looking for on that object?
>> Jeff: Increment.
>> Will Sentance: Increment,
do we find it?
>> Jeff: Not immediately.
>> Will Sentance: No,
it's not on that object.
Do we give up?
>> Jeff: No.
>> Will Sentance: Where
do we follow the purple?
>> Jeff: The indelible link.
>> Will Sentance: The indelible link,
up to?
>> Jeff: User function.
>> Will Sentance: Function
stole where we find on it-
>> Jeff: Increment.
>> Will Sentance: Increment,
and we grab its code.
And people we're gonna start
executing in a moment.
So I want you all to see some interesting
things about that function that we need to
make sure are true.
Because that function is gonna be able to
be used on user 1, on user 2, on user 400.
Before we do that though, let's understand
how this link is actually stored.
It's made using auto.create.
Whatever you pass in,
we get that indelible link, that bond.
How is it stored, the object, the reshoot,
object.create does create an empty object,
I stand by that.
And Kayla was hinting,
well hold on how is this link made?
Well she is right to say that,
is something that happens.
But it's under the hood
that we can't see it.
When we come to console I'll
show you how in a second.
A hidden property on this object.
>> Will Sentance: And it's a funny one,
it's double underscore,
proto double underscore,
they call that dunderscore proto or
dunder, proto dunder, the proto property,
and it has stored in it or link to.
User function store.
No, no, no, no.
Returns that object into user 1, and
behind the scenes, it still has its
proto link up to user function store.
This proto link, this chain connection
from user 1 up to user function store.
And it's also on here.
>> Will Sentance: We have a referent,
a link,
would actually literally
see written in here.
User function store,
a link to that object.
Meaning, let's start, Braden.
Braden, if I were doing user1.increment,
talk me through.
Where do I look for user one?
Would we find it?
>> Jeff: Yes.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, I do.
>> Will Sentance: This one is not
working,] I find it yes, I do.
I look for the increment method on it.
Do I find it?
>> Jeff: Not right away.
>> Will Sentance: No, but
what does JavaScript do?
I was actually gonna tell you,
JavaScript has its quite remarkable,
prototypal feature.
That means when it does not find
on the object A given property,
method or data it does not panic.
Instead it goes straight to
the __proto__ property not to be
confused with prototype.
You see that is wrong.
So it's the __proto__ property and
it looks at what is linking to,
and is linking to the proto
Up the prototype chain,
but yeah, up the prototype
chain that's okay phrasing.
Up the prototype chain or
let's say through its proto-reference
link up to where Bradon.
>> Jeff: The user function-
>> Will Sentance: The user function store.
What do we find?
>> Jeff: Increment.
>> Will Sentance: Increment method,
and we grab it And
we create a brand new execution
context for its code.
I'm gonna come to that in a moment.
But for now let's have thumbs
on this model where look people,
ain't this beautiful?
This user 1, this user 2.
Neither of them have individual copies
of our functions it would be totally
redundant as a waste of memory space.
We really good at a problem.
That code is saved in memory and
copies of it as it's wasted memory space.
Instead we have through
the pro to hidden property or
link up to a single copy or
up to a single object where all those
functions we want all these
objects have access to are stored.
And it's JavaScript prototype nature
that objects when we look on them for
a method we don't give up and
we don't find it.
We first go check the proto property and
head up to that object.
That is its prototype was one of features
is a feature like its lexical scope
property is a feature
like its global memory.
Like it's a feature.
It's a feature that objects have a
connection to other objects if we set them
to do so through their proto property.
And when JavaScript hits looking for
something and the object doesn't find it,
it does an error immediately.
It goes and checks one layer up or
maybe more.
We'll see in a moment.